docs/themes/engineering.md, before:

This page lists all the available projects in the Engineering research theme.

Information about Engineering can be found on [EPSRC’s website](https://www.ukri.org/what-we-offer/browse-our-areas-of-investment-and-support/engineering-theme/)

[2228bd1005](../projects/2228bd1005.md) Supporting the role of engineering professionals in urban green space delivery

[2228bd1011](../projects/2228bd1011.md) Adaptive microCT scanning to guide scaffold development in tissue engineering

[2228bd1083](../projects/2228bd1083.md) Graph-based methodologies for water networks monitoring and control

[2228bd1084](../projects/2228bd1084.md) Enhancing a well-balanced Microbiome for healthier indoor environments

[2228bd1006](../projects/2228bd1006.md) Learning from policy ‘messes’: a systems analysis of evidence use in practice

[2228bd1042](../projects/2228bd1042.md) An engineering method for the provision of microplastics-free water to haemodialysis systems in hospitals

[2228bd1080](../projects/2228bd1080.md) Modelling of salt crystallisation processes in porous heritage building materials

[2228bd1087](../projects/2228bd1087.md) Integrating synthetic biology and fabrication for sustainable bio-based construction materials

[2228bd1100](../projects/2228bd1100.md) Contact mechanics of geomaterials

[2228bd1118](../projects/2228bd1118.md) Multi-scale modelling of tsunamis interaction with build environment

[2228bd1128](../projects/2228bd1128.md) A novel ‘OLFACTORY’ methodology for assessing the presence of mould in buildings

[2228bd1131](../projects/2228bd1131.md) Digital Twins for Disaster Early Warning Systems

[2228bd1141](../projects/2228bd1141.md) The carbon footprint of crime

[2228bd1144](../projects/2228bd1144.md) Addressing air quality and thermal performance issues to help tackle inequalities embedded in overcrowded UK dwellings: development of enhanced household overcrowding metrics

[2228bd1165](../projects/2228bd1165.md) Data-driven techniques for low-carbon, healthy homes

[2228bd1174](../projects/2228bd1174.md) Direct Multi-Hazard Consequence-Based Design of Buildings

[2228bd1180](../projects/2228bd1180.md) Discovery and analysis of novel microbial nanocompartments from metagenome databases

[2228bd1196](../projects/2228bd1196.md) Impact of Moisture-Inducing Climatic Hazards on Seismic Performance of Masonry Structures

[2228bd1198](../projects/2228bd1198.md) Efficient coastal bathymetry survey using multibeam enabled uncrewed surface vehicle

[2228bd1125](../projects/2228bd1125.md) Vibration and stability of slender structures under moving masses

[2228bd1183](../projects/2228bd1183.md) Engineering a hybrid microscopy platform for brain-wide, multi-modal mapping of neuronal features in larval zebrafish

Commit message:

project, theme, and dept updates

docs/themes/engineering.md, after:

### Theme: Engineering

This page lists all the available projects in the Engineering research theme.

Information about Engineering can be found on [EPSRC’s website](https://www.ukri.org/what-we-offer/browse-our-areas-of-investment-and-support/engineering-theme/)

[2228bd1005](../projects/2228bd1005.md) Supporting the role of engineering professionals in urban green space delivery

[2228bd1006](../projects/2228bd1006.md) Learning from policy ‘messes’: a systems analysis of evidence use in practice

[2228bd1011](../projects/2228bd1011.md) Adaptive microCT scanning to guide scaffold development in tissue engineering

[2228bd1042](../projects/2228bd1042.md) An engineering method for the provision of microplastics-free water to haemodialysis systems in hospitals

[2228bd1080](../projects/2228bd1080.md) Modelling of salt crystallisation processes in porous heritage building materials

[2228bd1083](../projects/2228bd1083.md) Graph-based methodologies for water networks monitoring and control

[2228bd1084](../projects/2228bd1084.md) Enhancing a well-balanced Microbiome for healthier indoor environments

[2228bd1087](../projects/2228bd1087.md) Integrating synthetic biology and fabrication for sustainable bio-based construction materials

[2228bd1100](../projects/2228bd1100.md) Contact mechanics of geomaterials

[2228bd1118](../projects/2228bd1118.md) Multi-scale modelling of tsunamis interaction with build environment

[2228bd1125](../projects/2228bd1125.md) Vibration and stability of slender structures under moving masses

[2228bd1128](../projects/2228bd1128.md) A novel ‘OLFACTORY’ methodology for assessing the presence of mould in buildings

[2228bd1131](../projects/2228bd1131.md) Digital Twins for Disaster Early Warning Systems

[2228bd1141](../projects/2228bd1141.md) The carbon footprint of crime

[2228bd1144](../projects/2228bd1144.md) Addressing air quality and thermal performance issues to help tackle inequalities embedded in overcrowded UK dwellings: development of enhanced household overcrowding metrics

[2228bd1165](../projects/2228bd1165.md) Data-driven techniques for low-carbon, healthy homes

[2228bd1174](../projects/2228bd1174.md) Direct Multi-Hazard Consequence-Based Design of Buildings

[2228bd1180](../projects/2228bd1180.md) Discovery and analysis of novel microbial nanocompartments from metagenome databases

[2228bd1183](../projects/2228bd1183.md) Engineering a hybrid microscopy platform for brain-wide, multi-modal mapping of neuronal features in larval zebrafish

[2228bd1196](../projects/2228bd1196.md) Impact of Moisture-Inducing Climatic Hazards on Seismic Performance of Masonry Structures

[2228bd1198](../projects/2228bd1198.md) Efficient coastal bathymetry survey using multibeam enabled uncrewed surface vehicle

[2228bd1217](../projects/2228bd1217.md) Learning-based Model Predictive Control and its application to Smart Mobility Systems

[2228bd1220](../projects/2228bd1220.md) Interdisciplinary innovation and engagement across the engineering interface to address critical challenges
