docs/themes/physical-sciences.md, before:

This page lists all the available projects in the Physical Sciences research theme.

Information about Physical Sciences can be found on [EPSRC’s website](https://www.ukri.org/what-we-offer/browse-our-areas-of-investment-and-support/physical-sciences-theme/)

[2228bd1058](../projects/2228bd1058.md) Search for new topological states in implanted acceptor structures

[2228bd1029](../projects/2228bd1029.md) Exploring light propagation through brain tissue with adaptive multiphoton microscopy for improving deep tissue functional imaging

[2228bd1022](../projects/2228bd1022.md) Emergent Fermions in Quantum Spin Liquids

[2228bd1076](../projects/2228bd1076.md) Plasmonic Enhancement of Hydrogen from Water Splitting

[2228bd1044](../projects/2228bd1044.md) Open DEL for Machine Learning in Drug Discovery

[2228bd1091](../projects/2228bd1091.md) Developing High Throughput Approaches to Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy Substrate Screening & Production

[2228bd1003](../projects/2228bd1003.md) Engineering the physics of life into CO2 reduction, protometabolic flux and the emergence of genetic information

[2228bd1064](../projects/2228bd1064.md) Sensing our marine environment with nano-engineered plasmonic-Diamond

[2228bd1027](../projects/2228bd1027.md) Artificial selection of microbial communities: theory and/or experiments

[2228bd1096](../projects/2228bd1096.md) Machine learning of quantum dynamics, spectroscopy and quantum optics of biomolecules

[2228bd1098](../projects/2228bd1098.md) Many-body entanglement dynamics in open and closed quantum systems.

[2228bd1103](../projects/2228bd1103.md) Exploring high-order multiple-quantum coherences for the characterisation of molecular dynamics by ultra-high field NMR

[2228bd1105](../projects/2228bd1105.md) Exploring the geochemistry of Jupiter’s ice moons

[2228bd1106](../projects/2228bd1106.md) Plasma Jet Synthesis and Deposition of Metal Oxide Materials

[2228bd1213](../projects/2228bd1213.md) Understanding the physical principles of RNA topology regulation

[2228bd1135](../projects/2228bd1135.md) New Horizons in the Atomistic Simulation of Charge and Exciton Transport in Optoelectronic Materials

[2228bd1137](../projects/2228bd1137.md) Quantum information theory applied to gravity

[2228bd1138](../projects/2228bd1138.md) Non-adiabatic properties of nuclear motion

[2228bd1150](../projects/2228bd1150.md) Polariton and circuit QED lattices: quantum simulations of correlated and topological states

[2228bd1152](../projects/2228bd1152.md) Developing nucleic acid therapeutics using controllable polymers

[2228bd1153](../projects/2228bd1153.md) Synthesis and Application of Photocaged DNA and RNA Technologies

[2228bd1163](../projects/2228bd1163.md) PhD Studentship in Experimental Levitated Quantum Optomechanics

[2228bd1167](../projects/2228bd1167.md) Optical trapping and spectroscopy of 2D nanomaterials

[2228bd1182](../projects/2228bd1182.md) Testing the weak equivalence principle with antimatter via Rydberg-Atom Interferometry

Commit message:

project, theme, and dept updates

docs/themes/physical-sciences.md, after:

### Theme: Physical Sciences

This page lists all the available projects in the Physical Sciences research theme.

Information about Physical Sciences can be found on [EPSRC’s website](https://www.ukri.org/what-we-offer/browse-our-areas-of-investment-and-support/physical-sciences-theme/)

[2228bd1003](../projects/2228bd1003.md) Engineering the physics of life into CO2 reduction, protometabolic flux and the emergence of genetic information

[2228bd1022](../projects/2228bd1022.md) Emergent Fermions in Quantum Spin Liquids

[2228bd1027](../projects/2228bd1027.md) Artificial selection of microbial communities: theory and/or experiments

[2228bd1029](../projects/2228bd1029.md) Exploring light propagation through brain tissue with adaptive multiphoton microscopy for improving deep tissue functional imaging

[2228bd1044](../projects/2228bd1044.md) Open DEL for Machine Learning in Drug Discovery

[2228bd1058](../projects/2228bd1058.md) Search for new topological states in implanted acceptor structures

[2228bd1064](../projects/2228bd1064.md) Sensing our marine environment with nano-engineered plasmonic-Diamond

[2228bd1076](../projects/2228bd1076.md) Plasmonic Enhancement of Hydrogen from Water Splitting

[2228bd1091](../projects/2228bd1091.md) Developing High Throughput Approaches to Surface Enhanced Raman Spectroscopy Substrate Screening & Production

[2228bd1096](../projects/2228bd1096.md) Machine learning of quantum dynamics, spectroscopy and quantum optics of biomolecules

[2228bd1098](../projects/2228bd1098.md) Many-body entanglement dynamics in open and closed quantum systems.

[2228bd1103](../projects/2228bd1103.md) Exploring high-order multiple-quantum coherences for the characterisation of molecular dynamics by ultra-high field NMR

[2228bd1105](../projects/2228bd1105.md) Exploring the geochemistry of Jupiter’s ice moons

[2228bd1106](../projects/2228bd1106.md) Plasma Jet Synthesis and Deposition of Metal Oxide Materials

[2228bd1135](../projects/2228bd1135.md) New Horizons in the Atomistic Simulation of Charge and Exciton Transport in Optoelectronic Materials

[2228bd1137](../projects/2228bd1137.md) Quantum information theory applied to gravity

[2228bd1138](../projects/2228bd1138.md) Non-adiabatic properties of nuclear motion

[2228bd1150](../projects/2228bd1150.md) Polariton and circuit QED lattices: quantum simulations of correlated and topological states

[2228bd1152](../projects/2228bd1152.md) Developing nucleic acid therapeutics using controllable polymers

[2228bd1153](../projects/2228bd1153.md) Synthesis and Application of Photocaged DNA and RNA Technologies

[2228bd1163](../projects/2228bd1163.md) PhD Studentship in Experimental Levitated Quantum Optomechanics

[2228bd1167](../projects/2228bd1167.md) Optical trapping and spectroscopy of 2D nanomaterials

[2228bd1181](../projects/2228bd1181.md) Chemistry Student Transitions: Setting Students up for Success in the Physical Sciences

[2228bd1182](../projects/2228bd1182.md) Testing the weak equivalence principle with antimatter via Rydberg-Atom Interferometry

[2228bd1213](../projects/2228bd1213.md) Understanding the physical principles of RNA topology regulation
