###Activity-based models for household sustainability

Project ID: 2228bd1072
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Civil, Environmental and Geomatic Engineering (CEGE)](../departments/civil-environmental-and-geomatic-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/civil-environmental-geomatic-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Tim Hillel](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=THILL50)

Project Summary:

Why is this research important?
This research will help the UK achieve its ambitious sustainability goals by enabling data-driven policymaking – quantifying the comprehensive impacts of diverse policies and investments by simulating how households will adapt their behaviour and lifestyles in response to proposed changes and using artificial intelligence to identify new opportunities for reducing our environmental footprint.

Who will you be working with?
You will be part of the Behaviour & Infrastructure Group, led by Dr Tim Hillel (Civil and Geomatic Engineering, UCL), which aims to build a deeper understanding of urban systems and infrastructure networks using human behaviour as the central component of analysis. You will also work closely with Dr Maria Perez-Ortiz from the AI Centre (UCL Computer Science), whose research focuses on developing AI technologies to support sustainable development. Throughout the PhD you will have the opportunity to work alongside our wide network of collaborators across UCL, academia, and industry.

What will you be doing?
We are currently working on new activity-based models of interconnected energy and transport demand that i) model multiday activity scheduling from behavioural first principals, ii) explicitly capture the trade-offs between performing activities in-home or out-of-home, and iii) account for complex interactions between household members. You will extend this research across two related streams:
1. Incorporating key socio-economic activities that impact lifestyle sustainability, including purchasing habits and use of home-delivery services, into household activity schedules.
2. Applying reinforcement learning approaches to identify “low-hanging fruit”; straightforward steps (both bottom-up behaviour changes and top-down policies) that have a positive impact on lifestyle sustainability.
Through these streams, you will develop skills in behaviour modelling, optimisation, agent-based simulation, and machine learning.

Who are we looking for?
An enthusiastic and creative individual, with strong mathematical and computing skills and a desire to conduct research that effects positive change.
