Light-driven bio-robots based on bioengineered myofibers and micro-/nano-structured responsive elastomers

Project ID: 2228bd1065
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences](../departments/division-of-surgery-and-interventional-sciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/surgery)

Lead Supervisor: [Wenhui Song](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=WSONG66)

Project Summary:

Muscles execute all movements and are the main drivers of animal behaviour. While muscle development, physiology and regeneration are well understood, the recreation of muscle from its constituent cellular and extracellular components is still in its infancy. Following our recent progress on development of hybrid artificial muscle based on human pluripotent stem cell-derived muscle cells and elastomer nanofibers, we propose a project which will explore new ways to develop muscle-like hybrid bio-robots. To control contractions, we will emulate motor neuron input with optogenetic cells and micro-/nano-patterned elastomer simultaneously. The aim of the project is to develop 3D-muscle-like bio-actuators for future biorobots, muscle regeneration and reconstruction. Photonic-crystal (PC) micro-/nano-structure scaffolds using photo-responsive elastomer will be designed and fabricated. The correlation between the structure and optical and mechanical properties of the PC scaffolds will be systematically characterized and understood. The proliferation and myogenesis of iPSC-derived muscle cells on the PC-structure of the elastomers will be investigated and the contraction of myofibres and PC-structured scaffolds will be recorded and analyzed under light stimulation, in comparison with myofibres growing on aligned nanofibrous scaffold. Furthermore, both PC-based and aligned nanofiber-based muscle constructs will be explored through design and assembling into a bio-robot with musculoskeletal system function. Such an arrangement would simulate motor neuron behaviour in vitro and might serve as a precursor to more complex semi-biological robotic systems, potential bio-robotic implants or surgical robots.