###Collagen infilled Polyetheretherketone (PEEK) hybrid scaffold innovation for osteochondral donor site backfills

Project ID: 2228bd1045
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences](../departments/division-of-surgery-and-interventional-sciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/surgery)

Lead Supervisor: [Chaozong Liu](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=CLIUX47)

Project Summary:

Novel hybrid tendon-bone tissue connector for the repair of irreparable rotator cuff tears
 
 Rotator cuff (RC) tear is a common musculoskeletal disorder as a result of wear and tear from daily use or from sports injuries. It affects 40% of those aged 60 years old, up to 70% at 80. Tears often start small and then enlarge into large or massive tears. Eventually, tears become irreparable due to retraction of the tendon edge and fatty infiltration of the muscle belly. If left untreated, arthritis may develop, and shoulder joint replacements are needed. So repair of the rotator cuffs to delay or avoid should replacement have huge potential financial benefits.
 Treatment of irreparable tears is extremely challenging, often requiring musculotendinous transfers and patch grafts using biological or synthetic materials. Current surgical repair of tendon to bone results in the formation of disorganised scar tissue and is associated with high re-rupture rates (50%) and poor functional outcomes, because of mechanical and biologic factors that may compromise the patients’ intrinsic capacity to heal. 
 The goal of successful rotator cuff repair is the re-establishment of a 4-zone enthesis containing tendon, fibrocartilage, mineralised fibrocartilage and bone. The project is to develop a novel demineralization integrated decellularization method for fabrication of a hybrid bone matrix (DMiC BM) that features “4 zones of enthesis”. In the project, the student will optimise the processing parameters and evaluate the in vitro biological performance and biomechanical function of the novel DMiC BM in repairing irreparable rotator cuff tears. It is expected that the novel hybrid bone matrix would re-establish the anatomic continuity, biochemical environment and biomechanical function of the rotator cuff. It will reduce pain, improve the quality of life and increase shoulder function in patients with rotator cuff tears.