Chemistry Student Transitions: Setting Students up for Success in the Physical Sciences

Project ID: 2228bd1181
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: Stephen Potts

Project Summary:

There is a huge body of evidence that the transition into university and the first-year experience (when starting an undergraduate degree or moving from undergraduate to postgraduate courses) are hugely influential on student success, belonging, wellbeing and confidence. The length of this transition can affect the individual’s development.
 Student preparation is a major factor for their transition. Students who have had the chance to gain the required social and navigational capital, are more likely to have a shorter, more positive transition. This has clear implications for widening participation, diversity and inclusion at universities, where students from ‘non-traditional’ backgrounds may face additional barriers. Universities must ensure their practice and culture is adapted for the whole population, so the physical sciences can benefit from a diverse workforce.
 
 Drs Stephen Potts and Anna Roffey are Associate Professors (Teaching) in the Department of Chemistry, UCL. Dr Potts specialises in the undergraduate (UG) transition in Chemistry, working with students before, during and after enrolment. Dr Roffey has a similar role, but focussed on postgraduate taught (PGT) students.
 
 After a systematic review of the literature and appropriate social research training, the project will identify and evaluate current transition support provided to students, then scope student attitudes towards this and their transition. Surveys, student interviews, and focus groups will be employed, interpreted using statistical and thematic analysis techniques, with a special focus on disadvantaged groups. Identified gaps in provision will then be addressed with designed interventions, and potential to expand to other STEM departments at UCL and other universities in the UK.
 
 A successful researcher will have a good knowledge of statistical and data analysis. Ideally, they will have a master’s degree in a STEM subject.