###Developing probiotic interventions to reduce the emergence and persistence of pathogens in built environments

Project ID: 2228bd1218
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Architecture](../departments/bartlett-school-of-architecture.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/architecture)

Lead Supervisor: [Sean Nair](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=SNAIR26)

Project Summary:

The project will run alongside the EPSRC funded project: ENG-EPSRC EFRI ELiS: Developing probiotic interventions to reduce the emergence and persistence of pathogens in built environments. Operating at the intersection of architecture and microbiology the research questions how architecture and design can inform and shape healthy indoor microbiomes. The aim is to develop novel living materials and interventions for the built environment that can reduce the presence and persistence of Multi-Drug Resistant Organisms (MDRO) in buildings. The project sits against the ongoing threat of man-made drug resistance in surface-associated microorganisms. Dry, nutrient poor surfaces in the built environment, which are overly managed with antibacterial cleaning products are selecting for antimicrobial resistance and virulence traits. These traits result in greater health risks for Built Environment inhabitants. 
  
 The project vision is a complete transformation of how we design building materials, construct our buildings and maintain these environments. It aligns with the emerging health challenges associated with urbanisation and the understanding of the beneficial role that benign microbes can play towards creating healthy bodies, buildings and cities. Previous research within the team has shown that benign strains of Bacillus can actively control pathogens on built surfaces. We have also demonstrated how B.Subtilis can be integrated into porous materials, survive over time, and prevent MDRO colonization. 
  
 The project will be based at The Bartlett School of Architecture in collaboration with The Eastman Dental Institute and a US team at UCSD. We will develop existing and new probiotic Bacilllus-active materials into architectural design interventions. These will be tested to determine robustness, as well as the extent to which engineered Bacillus strains maintain viability and competition efficacy in real-world settings. This position will require strong architectural and computational design skills alongside experience in making, digital fabrication and an interest in interdisciplinary, biodesign methodologies.