Customised external breast prosthesis for breast cancer patients

Project ID: 2228bd1109
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences](../departments/division-of-surgery-and-interventional-sciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/surgery)

Lead Supervisor: Deepak M Kalaskar

Project Summary:

Why this research is important
 Breast cancer is the most common cancer in the UK with around 55,900 patients being diagnosed each year and over 45279 (81%) of these patients choosing to have surgery to remove their tumour. One of the key impacts of all breast cancer resections, with or without reconstruction, is the development of breast asymmetry. Breast asymmetry has been shown to have significant psychological, emotional, and social impact on women, particularly if it impacts the silhouette. 
 One option for patients with breast asymmetry is wearing an external breast prosthesis; It is estimated that 80% of these women will wear one for some period. Currently external breast prostheses within the UK are limited in shape, size and colour as they are mass manufactured. As a safe and simple intervention with a huge potential for positive impact, fabricating personalised external breast prostheses which meets patients’ expectation is warranted.
 Our proposed solution aims to use 3D photogrammetry, MRI imaging, volume rendering and additive manufacturing to create a personalised biomimetic external prosthesis that looks, feels and acts like breast tissue. 
 Who you will be working with/what you will be doing: Prof Deepak kalaskar (primary supervisor) is expert in design and development and application of Bespoke medical devices using 3D technologies. Prof Ash Mosahebi (Clinical supervisor) is consultant Breast surgeon, will provide clinical input so device is clinically translational. You will be working in a multidisciplinary environment, developing easy to use 3D scanning and printing methods to fabricate custom prothesis for breast cancer patients. 
 Who we are looking for: We are looking for a highly motivated individual to join our team. Ideal candidate should have a background on bioengineering, biomaterials, or related discipline.