###Enabling Continuous Manufacturing of mRNA Vaccines

Project ID: 2228bd1146
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [Biochemical Engineering](../departments/biochemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/biochemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Marco Marques](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=MMARQ87)

Project Summary:

mRNA vaccines have been in the spotlight since the Covid-19 pandemic, and the mRNA technology continues to be the platform technology for the development of novel vaccines. mRNA technology presents several advantages over traditional vaccines or even DNA vaccines such as precision, effectiveness, and safety. Furthermore, the flexible nature of the mRNA vaccine platform is also advantageous for the manufacturing process since a change in the encoded antigen does not affect the mRNA backbone physical–chemical characteristics allowing production to be standardised. Despite, these advantages, the cost of these vaccines is prohibitive for low- and middle-income countries. 
 
 Continuous processing is used in the chemical and pharmaceutical industry to run flexible and cost-effective processes. This processing approach potentially also reduces operation times, facilitating automation and the implementation of process analytical technologies. Ultimately, this will render in higher productivities, higher mRNA product quality, and if the scale is reduced, offer an on-demand production. This is particular important to establish new mRNA production platforms, where to achieve lower production costs is of paramount importance to make these vaccines affordable to all!
 The doctorate student will demonstrate feasibility of a continuous manufacturing platform for mRNA vaccines, addressing four key engineering challenges:
 1) Continuous mRNA production reactors: develop reactors (e.g. packed bed reactors) which can perform cascade reactions in single unit, allowing compartmentalisation of reactions, while achieving high space time yields. 
 2) Interface units: develop units which will link different unit operations (production and purification) enabling whole bioprocess sequences. 
 3) Sampling strategies: propose sampling point and develop interfaces for analytical purposes, establishing quality control points. 
 4) Operating conditions: e.g. Flow rates/residence times should match between the different unit operations, avoiding the use of holding tanks or loops.