Making sense of missense mutations in aging tissues and cancer

Project ID: 2228bd1101
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Medical Physics and Biomedical Engineering](../departments/medical-physics-and-biomedical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/medical-physics-biomedical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: Benjamin Hall

Project Summary:

Aging is associated with a wide range of diseases, including cancer. Cells in normal human tissues progressively accrue mutations during aging. Some of these mutations cause changes to cell behaviour that may enable clones carrying them to persist and expand. This leads to an evolutionary process within normal tissues of the body, with a heterogeneous population of mutant cells undergoing constant competitive selection. These mutated cells are not themselves cancerous but may eventually lead to the development of tumours. In this PhD project you will use different computational techniques, ranging from developing network models of gene interactions to simulations of cells in the tissue to understand rich experimental datasets shared by collaborators. In this you will develop computational models using a range of different abstractions, and work with a mixture of sequencing data and imaging measurements of clonal interaction and competition. You will be working in the group of Dr Ben Hall(https://hall-lab.com/), which has a long-term interest in studying the relationship between mutation in healthy tissue and carcinogenesis and established experimental collaborations. This project is suitable for life scientists with some experience in coding or mathematics, or physical/mathematical scientists with evidenced interest in collaboration and or interdisciplinary work. Experience in working in teams is also useful.