Engineering advanced biomaterial based 3D human-microbiota models

Project ID: 2228bd1048
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Surgery and Interventional Sciences](../departments/division-of-surgery-and-interventional-sciences.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/surgery)

Lead Supervisor: [Eirini Velliou](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=EVELL97)

Project Summary:

Research importance: There is increasing evidence that the microbiota present in human tissues, has a crucial role both in tissue homeostasis as well as in tissue disease development, progression and treatment response/resistance. For example, very recent studies have shown that there is an alteration of the microbiota composition during carcinogenesis, the composition differs from patient to patient and it can affect the response to treatment and the patient survival (e.g. for oesophageal, pancreatic or gut cancers). However, in depth knowledge on human-microbiota interactions during disease development and progression is lacking, partly due to the lack of robust in vitro models for advanced studies. Whilst tissue engineering has enabled the development of various advanced 3D human tissue models, human-microbiome models are very limited to date. In this project, we aim to develop advanced biomaterial based 3D human-microbiota models. More specifically, using additive bio-manufacturing technologies we will engineer 3D scaffolds of various biochemical and biomechanical properties. Thereafter, we will create complex human-microbiota co-cultures and we will assess how scaffold/biomaterial properties affect the spatiotemporal co-evolution of human and microbiota cells. Such a systematic novel study will enable the design of advanced 3D human-microbiota models for research on tissue evolution and therapy screening.
 Who you will be working with/what you will be doing: You will be joining the group of Dr Eirini Velliou (CBH/Bloomsbury). You will be also working closely with Prof Deepak Kalaskar (Royal Free) and Prof Manish Tiwari (Mechanical Engineering). You will be working in a multidisciplinary environment, fabricating and characterising advanced biomaterials and conducting cell culturing along with advanced microscopy/imaging, molecular biology and material characterisation. 
 Who we are looking for: We are looking for a highly motivated individual to join our team. Ideal candidate should have a background on bioengineering, cancer cell biology, microbiology, biomaterials or related discipline.