###Scalable nature-inspired design of perovskite solar cells architectures

Project ID: 2228bd1203
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemical Engineering](../departments/chemical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Amita Ummadisingu](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=AUMMA45)

Project Summary:

Society is facing an urgent need for new sustainable technologies that can provide energy on a large-scale and facilitate our transition to Net Zero. Perovskites have recently emerged as an important class of semiconductors especially well-suited for photovoltaic applications. These materials can be deposited directly from inks or solutions, making them highly compatible with existing printing infrastructure for rapid industrial scale production. However, demonstrations of high-efficiency perovskite solar cells have been predominantly on the lab-scale and several challenges in scaling up this promising technology remain open. 
 This project aims to develop new and scalable solar cell architectures for perovskite materials, drawing inspiration from nature, and will be conducted in the Manufacturing Futures Laboratory, based in the new UCL East campus in London (https://www.ucl.ac.uk/manufacturing-futures-lab/). Scalability is a challenge that nature tackles remarkably well, as seen in the many hierarchical networks we encounter in biology. The project will leverage insights from the natural world to design new solar cell architectures tailored on the meso- and nano-scale, to overcome the limitations of the small lab-scale prototypes and to achieve optimal performance in large-area solar cells. These new architectures will be devised for compatibility with solution-processable methods enabling scalable and inexpensive manufacturing in the future.
 We seek a motivated student who has completed or is close to completing a first-class degree at the MEng or MSc level in Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Material Science or related fields with an interest in new technologies for sustainable energy production. The ability to perform research independently while being a constructive member of a collaborative team, within a highly demanding environment, is a must. Demonstrable prior experience with semiconductor devices and material characterization tools are desirable, but not necessary requirements. The post-holder is expected to present results at international conferences and publish in peer-reviewed journals of high international standing.