###Supporting the role of engineering professionals in urban green space delivery

Project ID: 2228bd1005
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

UCL Lead department: [Science, Technology, Engineering and Public Policy (STEAPP)](../departments/science-technology-engineering-and-public-policy.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/steapp)

Lead Supervisor: [Carla-Leanne Washbourne](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=CWASH44)

Project Summary:

Urban green space (UGS) is increasingly prevalent in public and policy agendas due to growing evidence on the multiple benefits it provides for climate, biodiversity and societal wellbeing. Recent shifts in planning and policy, in the UK and elsewhere, have set higher standards for UGS preservation and creation during urban development with growing focus on the quality, as well as quantity, of these spaces. Those involved in design, implementation and maintenance (including civil, geotechnical and environmental engineers) are increasingly required to work with other professionals and stakeholders (including residents and users) to deliver high-quality UGS that serves a range of environmental and social functions. However, research has found that many engineers feel under-equipped to do so, based on the knowledge and skills developed during traditional training and continuing professional development (CPD) activities. This project would seek to understand the current context and explore ways to support those in engineering professions to play more effective roles in UGS delivery.
  
 The project will connect with Higher Education (HE) Institutions, professional societies, researchers and practitioners working on UGS issues in various sized enterprises. 
 
 Research would encompass: 
 *Curriculum and CPD framework review - to understand if and how UGS delivery is included in engineering curricula across HE institutions and in professional societies’ CPD frameworks
 *Fieldwork (shadowing individuals in diverse roles) - to understand key demands on engineering knowledge and skills base when working on UGS delivery
 *Surveys and interviews – broader data collection to compliment fieldwork insights on knowledge and skills
 
 Outputs may take the shape of knowledge products, training courses and/or recommendations for training and working practices.
  
 The ideal candidate for this project would be qualified in / have relevant professional experience and interest in engineering, landscape architecture, urban planning or related disciplines. They would ideally have an interest in engineering education.