###Thermo-responsive fibres containing magnetic nanoparticles for Melanoma-Targeted Drug Delivery

Project ID: 2228bd1023
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Eastman Dental Institute](../departments/eastman-dental-institute.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/eastman)

Lead Supervisor: [Linh Nguyen](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=LNGUY66)

Project Summary:

Melanoma is the most aggressive and dangerous type of skin cancer, but its molecular mechanisms remain largely unclear Drug delivery systems (DDS) such as lipid- or polymer-based nanoparticles can be designed to improve the pharmacological and therapeutic properties of drugs administered parenterally with the emergence of nanotechnology.
 Nanofibers are one of the most promising forms of dressing that could address many limitations exhibited by groups, meanwhile considering a scale-up potential, a cost-effective yet versatile technique, electrospinning is employed in this study. The aim of this project is to design a novel drug delivery system that will consist of a thermo-responsive copolymer of acrylamide and acrylonitrile (AAm-AN) embedded with iron oxide nanoflowers with magnetic heating ability, grafted onto nanofibers electrospun membrane, with the vision of developing a multifunctional product for targeted treatment of melanoma with skin-regenerative properties. 
 This project combines the expertise of the Eastman Dental Institute in smart biomaterials such as thermo-responsive polymer development and electrospinning technique with that of the prospective Biophysics group in nanomaterials development to develop a novel nanofibre matrix material for melanoma-targeted drug delivery.
 The objective will be: 
 1. Fabrication, optimisation, and characterisation of electrospun membranes consisting of polycaprolactone (PCL) blended Gelatin (GE) nanofibers.
 2. Fabrication, optimisation, and characterisation of a thermo-responsive copolymer of acrylamide and acrylonitrile (AAm-AN) (UCST).
 3. Surface modification of PCL/GE by immobilizing UCST-loaded magnetic iron oxide nanoflowers and characterisation.
 4. Nanoflowers (NFs) release studies at different concentrations of NFs, different magnetic fields, and different temperatures.
 5. Biological testing on the nanofiber matrix including in-vitro and in-vivo studies.