###Desiccation technology: translational applications for (stem) cell storage and inhaled cell-based therapies

Project ID: 2228bd1016
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Eastman Dental Institute](../departments/eastman-dental-institute.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/eastman)

Lead Supervisor: [David Chau](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=DYSCH88)

Project Summary:

Biologics- products derived from living organisms- as well as mammalian cells are involved in a wide range of biotechnological applications and include drug development, regenerative medicine and cell therapy. Critical to their success is the ease of processing and ability for long-term storage. Lyophilisation is a low cost, low maintenance and (ambient) process-compatible technique that has been used in the pharmaceutical industry. Although this technique has been applied to simple peptides and proteins, no study has documented a successful, large-scale, validated protocol for large protein complexes nor (stem) cells. This project will investigate the parameters, mechanisms and effects of the drying process on “biologics”- herein specifically referring to nucleic acids (RNA), peptides, protein complexes and human cells. This “progressive” increase in end-product complexity will ensure a full understanding of the implications of processing, materials/excipients, and chemistry. 
 
 The project will involve aspects of material characterisation and development (Eastman), as well as a degree of pharmaceutics/drug development as the lyophilised biologics could be further exploited to develop a number of emerging translational applications e.g. inhaled therapeutics, desiccated bio-inks and wound dressings (Pharmacy). Novel reagents will be provided by the research collaborators (i.e. Camnexus and Royal Botanical/Kew Gardens). There is also potential to work alongside the industrial collaborator, ImmuONE, who specialise in the development of immunocompetent, human, lung cell models to which the proposed novel desiccated cell-formulation could be tested upon. 
 
 The ultimate aim of this project is to develop a translational “formulation strategy” (via the use of the use of novel substrates/matrices and supplements or, manipulation of the processing conditions of the culture environment) to generate a desiccation-tolerant biologic. Techniques considered within this project include (bio)material characterisation (SEM, DMA, FTIR, WCA, texture analyses), cell culture, design of experiment/in silico, drying/desiccation/lyophilisation processing, drug-incorporated microparticle fabrication, drug release and diffusion.