###Modelling of salt crystallisation processes in porous heritage building materials

Project ID: 2228bd1080
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Scott Allan Orr](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=SAORR49)

Project Summary:

WHY THIS RESEARCH IS IMPORTANT
 
 Pressure build-up due to salt crystallisation damages porous heritage building materials including brick, stone, and concrete. Understanding of this phenomenon and its effects on materials is limited. As climate change progresses and we implement measures to reduce carbon emissions, salt-related degradation is expected to increase. A detailed understanding of the implications for material and structural longevity is lacking. This project aims to address these knowledge gaps with additional implications for understanding of salt crystallisation in geological and industrial processes. 
 
 WHO YOU WILL BE WORKING WITH
 
 This project is an interdisciplinary collaboration between the Institute for Sustainable Heritage and the Department of Chemical Engineering, combining expertise on heritage science, particularly understanding environmental impacts on the historic built environment, with molecular modelling of crystallisation and associated processes. This project will be aligned with experimental research conducted by the Belgian Royal Institute for Cultural Heritage (KIK). 
 
 WHAT YOU WILL BE DOING
 
 This project will model salt crystallisation, exploring opportunities provided by molecular modelling to understand the behaviour of soluble salts and potentially complex mixtures in porous heritage building materials. These results will be compared with experimental work (e.g., 4D µCT), coordinated by KIK. This will inform parameterisation of this behaviour, forming the basis for scaled-up risk evaluation using regional climatic data. 
 
 WHO WE ARE LOOKING FOR
 
 An enthusiastic individual to undertake a project that deepens our understanding of how salt crystallisation processes occur in porous media and translates this into implications for heritage management. You should meet the ISH MPhil/PhD Programme Entry Requirements, for which a diverse range of backgrounds are suitable, including, but not limited to, chemistry, heritage science, statistics and modelling, and engineering. The following are desirable:
  - Familiarity with physical modelling software and ability to program 
  - Experience/demonstrable interest in the heritage sector