Investigating lean-stratified hydrogen mixtures for ultra-low emission propulsion

Project ID: 2228bd1160
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mechanical Engineering](../departments/mechanical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Paul Hellier](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=PRHEL99)

Project Summary:

The urgent need to address global climate change and reach net zero requires the displacement of fossil fuels in transport with sustainable alternatives. One such zero-carbon fuel is hydrogen (H2), with possible production from renewably generated electricity and potential to drastically reduce the emission of pollutants detrimental to air quality and public health. However, significant challenges remain in utilising H2 for difficult to decarbonise transport applications (for example heavy-duty road transport and the marine sector), in particular maintaining high thermal efficiencies while reducing nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions.
 
 The majority of current H2 engines utilise homogeneous premixed fuel and air, requiring close to stoichiometric mixtures favouring the formation of NOx and wastage of fuel in reaction quenching zones adjacent to combustion chamber walls. This PhD project therefore investigates the effects of direct injection of hydrogen into an engine, such that a distribution of H2-air mixtures of varying proportions exists at the time of ignition. This can result in high combustion efficiencies but at overall fuel lean conditions, thus reducing temperatures and rates of NOx formation. 
 
 UCL Mechanical Energy has a long history of undertaking cutting-edge research in renewable fuels and pollutant emissions, and during the project the successful candidate will undertake experiments with state-of-the-art direct injection engines, investigating with a variety of diagnostic methods stratified H2 combustion and emission characteristics. The PhD student will gain experience and skills in safe experimentation with H2, operating thermodynamic and optical research engines, interpreting combustion and emissions measurements, optical diagnostics including laser induced breakdown spectroscopy (LIBS) and further chemical speciation of in-cylinder and exhaust gases. The student will benefit from engagement with industry and opportunities to discuss their findings. Applicants should have a background in a relevant engineering or life sciences discipline and a strong interest in devising sustainable engineering solutions towards achieving net zero.