###Sensing our marine environment with nano-engineered plasmonic-Diamond

Project ID: 2228bd1064
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](../departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.london-nano.com)

Lead Supervisor: [Richard Jackman](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=RBJAC40)

Project Summary:

Diamond as a gemstone – what a waste! It is more useful as the semiconductor with extreme electronic and optical properties that it actually is. Diamond can be produced in the laboratory without the need for mining. Conventional sensor technologies use materials like silicon that are not able to withstand the challenging environments of our oceans; diamond can. Environmental sensing has never been more important – our oceans play a significant role in climate control, but proposals to geo-engineer them can have disastrous consequences for marine wildlife. For example, marine CO2 sequestration risks acidification of the oceans. Pollution caused by the oil-gas sector, and radiation following nuclear accidents (Fukushima) pose further marine environmental hazards. Additionally, there are risks to human health from the accidental or purposeful pollution of land-based water reservoirs, in terms of (bio)chemical or radiation hazards. Needed is a network of compact highly durable sensors that can be deployed for long periods, with trace detection sensitivity, read-out through the concept of the ‘internet of things’. Diamond is possibly the only sensor material that can offer this prospect.
 This PhD programme will explore diamond as an optical chemical sensor, using an approach known as ‘surface enhanced Raman spectroscopy (SERS)’, a method that can enable parts-per-billion sensitivity. Also anticipated are diamond radiation detectors, diamond being the ultimate radiation ‘hard’ material. Materials processing and characterisation, device design and fabrication will aim towards device prototyping. 
 You will be joining UCLs Diamond Electronics Group (DEG) which enjoys an internationally leading reputation in the field of diamond device technology. Led by Professor Richard Jackman, the group has a laboratory dedicated to the growth and processing of diamond, and prides itself on being a friendly sociable team; if you have a degree in EE, ChemEng/Chem, Physics or similar please consider joining us. https://www.ucl.ac.uk/electronic-electrical-engineering/people/prof-richard-jackman