Warm@Home: Building stock model with customisable socio-technical parameters for home heating.

Project ID: 2228bd1159
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Paul Ruyssevelt](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=PRUYS20)

Project Summary:

RATIONALE: HM Government (2021) Heat and Buildings Strategy sets the challenging goal of ramping up heat pump installations from 35,000 to 600,000 p.a. by 2028. Although it notes that engaging the public to achieve the necessary changes will require “tailored advice so that individuals can confidently make informed choices regarding heat sources and energy efficiency measures in their homes”, it has little to say on how to achieve this. This research will develop the technical means (a tailored building stock model) to provide highly tailored and flexible socio-technical advice to home owners on their heating and warming options. It will achieve this by leveraging historical EPSRC, UK government and local authority investment in UCL’s building stock models.
 
 AIM: Develop a building stock model with customisable socio-technical parameters for achieving warmth at home.
 
 PROJECT: This project will develop a building stock model that allows users to select the combination of building upgrade, heating system, heating use and (uniquely) alternative warming practices to suit their specific home, household, budget and timeframes. For instance, using alternative warming practices and less demanding heating settings could reduce the need for building fabric upgrades, either until funds or tradespeople are available, or in perpetuity, potentially considerably expanding the customer base for heat pumps. 
 
 APPROACH: This PhD will build on UCL’s SimStock simulation model, using 3DStock (digital twin of existing stock) as the database, socio-technical research findings regarding alternative warming practices, and user interviews regarding model needs and preferences.
 
 TEAM: The selected candidate will join the Building Stock Lab team, which specialises in highly desegregated models and collaborates with government and local authorities on assessing low carbon building stock scenario options.
 
 CANDIDATE: The ideal candidate has an ability to undertake innovative socio-technical building stock modelling and research to understand and model complex heating technology adoption drivers.