###PhD Studentship in Experimental Levitated Quantum Optomechanics

Project ID: 2228bd1163
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Physics and Astronomy](../departments/physics-and-astronomy.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/physics-astronomy)

Lead Supervisor: [Peter Barker](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=PBARK82)

Project Summary:

The ability to control the motion of isolated, quantum nanoscale objects, levitated in high vacuum has developed rapidly over the last ten years. When confined by optical, electric or magnetic fields, they form nanoscale oscillators with extremely low dissipation. These are new quantum technologies where cooling to within less than a quantum above its lowest possible energy has only been recently realised. They now offer possibilities for applications that range from commercial sensors to quantum technologies to studies of fundamental physics, including the search for exotic states of matter. 
 
 The UCL optomechanics group follows a tightly coupled experimental and theoretical approach towards realising full quantum control over all motional degrees of freedom of these systems. This includes 3D translational motion, but also rotational and librational motion as well. In addition, we are developing this technology as a directional dark matter sensor. 
 
 This project now aims to taking optomechanics into the many-particle and many-body regimes capitalising on the unique scalability of multiple identical and fully controllable nano-oscillators. A primary objective is to develop control of the orientation of non-spherical nanoparticles for applications in diffraction imaging and to explore many-body quantum dynamics in a novel regime with practical applications in nanoparticle characterisation. This project is funded by the UK’s Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and offers both experimental and theoretical opportunities.