###Composite Manufacturing Fibre Alignment Monitoring

Project ID: 2228bd1037
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Manufacturing The Future](../themes/manufacturing-the-future.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mechanical Engineering](../departments/mechanical-engineering.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/mechanical-engineering)

Lead Supervisor: [Paul Fromme](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=PFROM09)

Project Summary:

Advanced composite manufacturing plays an important role to enable the high-quality, cost-effective manufacture of complex structures for a wide range of core UK industries, ranging from aerospace to automotive and renewable energy. Novel manufacturing technologies such as Tailored Fibre Placement (TFP), 3D Weaving, and Automated Fibre Placement Tow Steering (AFP) have demonstrated significant potential to revolutionize composite manufacture. However, they require in-process verification of manufacturing accuracy and quality, e.g., of fibre positioning and alignment, to unlock their full potential. These technologies can provide variable and tailored orientation reinforced composite structures, which is advantageous in achieving high component performance as well as reducing weight, material usage, and waste. 
 
 One of the main characteristics that define structural performance is fibre alignment. Small deviations in the predicted fibre position or alignment can eliminate or reduce the advantages gained from the tailored placement. Therefore, the inspection and monitoring of such structures is fundamental, especially to detect any deviation during or after manufacturing. However, conventional nondestructive testing methods are still unable to provide the ‘real’ fibre orientation for each deposited layer.
 
 This PhD project will advance the inspection and in-process evaluation during the manufacturing of advanced composite structures, developing and combining novel, planar X-ray imaging and ultrasonic methodology with the prediction of final composite strength and properties. Combining novel imaging methods and finite element analysis, the newly developed methodology will be applied to enhance the manufacturing and design of complex composite structures by providing early assessment during the manufacturing process chain, i.e., before and during resin infusion and curing.