###New approaches to the synthesis of novel fluorinated molecules

Project ID: 2228bd1092
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Tom Sheppard](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=TSHEP42)

Project Summary:

Fluorinated organic molecules have many applications across medicinal chemistry, agrochemicals, material science and polymer synthesis. This widespread utility is due to the carbon-fluorine bond which is highly polarised, extremely strong, and relatively inert. It imparts useful properties on an organic molecule, by blocking otherwise reactive sites, altering the polarity, and inducing changes in molecular shape. We are developing a new research programme in our group focused on the development of synthetic methods to prepare previously inaccessible fluorinated compounds. Chiral (nonsymmetrical) organic molecules which contain a carbon atom bonded to four different groups (a stereogenic carbon atom) are highly important, particularly in medicinal chemistry applications where interaction with proteins is crucial. To date, however, the properties of fluorinated organic molecules in which the C-F bond forms part of a chiral carbon atom remain largely unexplored. This is mostly due to the fact that the synthesis of these molecules is highly challenging. Whilst some approaches exist, these are restricted to very limited structural classes of compounds and are not readily scalable to provide larger quantities of material. In this project we will use a combination of chemical and biocatalytic transformations for the synthesis of structurally complex fluorinated organic molecules. In preliminary experiments, we have discovered a sustainable and potentially scalable method for the formation of chiral fluorinated carbon atoms using biocatalysis. The aim of this project will be to develop synthetic methods to access a wide range of suitable precursors for this biocatalytic reaction, and then develop effective reaction conditions for the novel biocatalytic process. We envisage that this will provide access to a wide range of previously inaccessible fluorinated organic molecules with a plethora of potential applications. The student should have a chemistry degree and will develop advanced skills in synthetic organic chemistry, biocatalytic reactions, enzyme expression and cloning/genetic modification.