Fuel Poverty and Smart Meters

Project ID: 2228bd1184
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Tadj Oreszczyn](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=TORES56)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important
 The cost-of-living crisis is driving millions more households into fuel poverty. This research aims to improve how fuel poverty in GB is understood, measured, identified, and reduced by investigating: How can smart meters combined with state of the art data analytics and machine learning be used to understand how fuel poverty affects the population and identify those in or at risk of it?
 
 Who you will be working with
 You will be working with a research group of building physicists and data scientists who have developed the EPSRC-funded Smart Energy Research Lab: a world-leading longitudinal dataset of half-hourly smart meter gas and electricity use in a representative sample of 13,000 GB homes with rich contextual data. You will be part of a science and engineering team whose research is relevant to and sought after by Government (BEIS) and private sector (e.g. National Grid Electricity Distribution) and you will also engage with public and private sector to ensure your research has impact.
 
 What you will be doing
 SERL is a unique and rich data resource that can enable innovative energy demand data science. It is highly suited for fuel poverty research by linking high-resolution energy data with energy cost data and detailed building and sociodemographic data. Your primary aims are to use machine learning to
 1. Identify building thermal performance characteristics from smart meter data and fuel poverty energy use archetypes including “self-rationing”, and
 2. Analyse how fuel poverty energy use archetypes evolve over time and to determine what sociodemographic and building characteristics predict membership of archetypes.
 
 Who we are looking for
 We are looking for a candidate with an interest in impact focussed energy demand research, with strong skills in data analysis and communication, who is self-motivated and who works well in a team.