###Enhancing a well-balanced Microbiome for healthier indoor environments

Project ID: 2228bd1084
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Engineering](../themes/engineering.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Hector Altamirano](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=HALTA34)

Project Summary:

We have learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic that apart from vaccines that significantly reduce the risk of infections, social distancing and cleaning regimes are still the primary defence used to reduce pathogenic organisms in buildings. However, infections are rising, and pathogens that cannot be treated with any available antibiotic are always likely to develop. Hence, new ways to improve our cities, and enhance the health and well-being outcomes of buildings need to be developed. Studies have found that the major components of the indoor microbiome (the microorganisms existing in a particular environment) are species derived from occupants' microbiomes (e.g., bacteria; there are trillions in the human body), which can pose a significant health risk. Several factors, including occupancy and ventilation, influence the indoor microbiome. However, the role of plants in modifying the indoor microbiome and the pathogen load within a space is yet to be studied. It is believed that a space containing plans is healthier because of the perceived connection with nature; however, the reason may be different and related to the plants' microbiomes’ role in fighting indoor human pathogens. 
 
 This project aims to assess the effect of plants on modifying and reducing the number of human pathogens in the air and on surfaces. 
 
 The proposed methodology includes: (1) Identifying indoor plants harbouring microbes that have an antagonistic effect against common human pathogens. (2) Carrying out experimental work to establish how environmental parameters usually found indoors (air movement, temperature, and relative humidity) affect plants and the release of their microbes. (3) Establishing ways to boost the release of microbes and their impact on human pathogens. (4) Assessing the biome of various building typologies (office, schools, and homes) with and without plants to evaluate (monitor and air sampling) the effect of plants on different setups.