###Plasma Jet Synthesis and Deposition of Metal Oxide Materials

Project ID: 2228bd1106
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Physical Sciences](../themes/physical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: [Daren Caruana](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=DJCAR76)

Project Summary:

This project is concerned with developing a new method for depositing coatings on electrodes for the efficient and sustainable manufacture of batteries and electrolysers. A huge bottleneck in the fabrication of these devices is the lack of simple and accessible means to deposit metal
 oxides with control over its composition and physical dimensions. Much of the effort in research and development is aimed at discovery of materials with the correct properties, but the method of deposition will determine the life-time and the cost of the device directly. The primary focus of this PhD project will be to explore a plasma jet method for synthesis and deposition of technological important oxides on a variety of substrates. The ability to print and pattern of multi-materials in a single-step process with high adhesion onto virtually any substrate will be of enormous benefit for many high value devices.
 
 You will join a dynamic team working on developing atmospheric pressure plasma jets focused on depositing a variety of materials ranging from single metals and alloys to polymers and enzymes.
 
 Primarily you will be developing your skills in scientific research, namely analytical and deduction. You will be trained in a variety of chemical and physical characterisation techniques available at UCL such as Raman spectroscopy, X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, electron and optical microscopy, electrochemistry and x-ray diffraction. You will also have a chance to build equipment, as many of our experiments require bespoke apparatus.
 
 The successful applicant will demonstrate self-motivation, good experimental practice and the ability to think analytically. Good computer skills and writing skills in English are essential. Previous research experience in contributing to a collaborative interdisciplinary research
 environment is highly desirable but not necessary as training will be provided.