###DNA sensors based on Graphene Microwave Waveguides

Project ID: 2228bd1074
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Advanced Materials](../themes/advanced-materials.md)

UCL Lead department: [London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](../departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.london-nano.com)

Lead Supervisor: [Antonio Lombardo](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=ALOMB28)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important
 Biosensors capable of identifying non-amplified DNA sequences are essential for molecular biology, diagnostic and precision medicine. Electrochemically-gated graphene microwave waveguide sensors are a new concept combining, in a single platform, two normally separated sensing approaches, i.e. chemical field effect sensing and microwave sensing. This is made possible by the use of graphene, whose RF/microwave conductivity is independent of frequency up to several hundreds of GHz but significantly modified by electrostatic effects at the graphene/solution interfaces. Also, wave propagation in the waveguide is modified by direct interactions of analytes with the fringing field, providing a second sensing mechanism which enhances the sensitivity. The choice of high frequencies (GHz) ensures robustness against Debye screening, which degrades sensitivity in DC and low-frequency sensors exposed to physiological conditions. 
 
 Who you will be working with
 The successful candidate will be part of the NanoElectronic Devices Group (https://lombardo-lab.com/) and work closely with other postgraduate students and postdoctoral research associates. She/he will also work with researchers in the Simoncelli Lab (https://simoncelli-lab.com/). 
 
 What you will be doing
 Building on the recent results on DNA sensing achieved by the NanoElectronic group (https://lombardo-lab.com/publications), this project aims to expand the investigation towards the application of graphene microwave sensors on realistic genetic applications. The project will involve deposition of graphene onto different substrates, design, simulation and fabrication of waveguides and microfluidic channels, functionalization of the sensors and testing at DC and RF/microwave frequencies. The electrical measurements will be complemented by super-resolution fluorescence microscopy experiments.
 
 Who we are looking for
 The successful candidate will have a first class honours undergraduate degree and/or a post-graduate master’s qualification in electronic engineering, physics, nanotechnology, biotechnology or closely related disciplines. We are looking for highly motivated candidates with a solid background in solid state physics and a strong interest in devices.