Understanding the true impact of moisture excess on internal wall insulation: new moisture criteria

Project ID: 2228bd1129
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Hector Altamirano](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=HALTA34)

Project Summary:

Internal wall insulation (IWI) is one of the most promising methods of improving the energy efficiency of buildings while maintaining their original facades and construction. However, if wrongly specified and installed, it can lead to moisture accumulation, which could be detrimental to the building fabric and its occupants' health. IWI systems are currently assessed using criteria that are only appropriate for internal surfaces (ADF 2020 and BS5250) and not for interstitial conditions. The latest research suggests that IWI undergoes failure in varying degrees of severity, which has had a detrimental impact on the provision of warranties for IWI. Therefore, there is a need to evaluate insulation systems based on their performance after or during sustained high levels of moisture instead of evaluating them using the current common conceptions of moisture-related failure. The project aims to establish new moisture criteria based on how resilient an IWI system is, hence, its ability to return from adverse conditions to maintain its primary function. 
 At the UCL Here East environmental lab, experimental work will be carried out to evaluate moisture-related failures and their short & long-term impact on insulations properties. In addition, a methodology to assess resilience in-situ will be developed; case studies provided by UK Centre for Moisture in Buildings (UKCMB) industry members will be selected, inspected, and evaluated.