###Mathematical modelling techniques and applications

Project ID: 2228bd1133
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Mathematical Sciences](../themes/mathematical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mathematics](../departments/mathematics.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/maths)

Lead Supervisor: [Jean-Marc Vanden-Broeck](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=JVAND65)

Project Summary:

Applied mathematics uses various mathematical modelling techniques which impact most, perhaps even all, branches of science, engineering, technology, medicine as well as architecture, planning, commerce, arts, humanities and much more. Machine Learning has received substantial interest recently, however, it also can be seen as an application of mathematics which has become possible due to increased computational power. The research includes a large number of topics which can be studied, ranging from applied analysis, financial mathematics, fluids, mathematical biology, numerical/computation and mathematical physics. In addition research is done in such diverse topics as security and screening issues, crime propagation, social dynamics, spatial analysis, biochemical engineering, and also includes interesting topics like sand and dust movement, crowd behaviour, cosmology, sediment transport, fire spreading, combustion safety, food sorting, Olympic cycling, ice formation on aircraft, melting and solidification problems. The mathematics inherent in these studies covers a very wide range indeed of applied mathematics. 
 
 Every PhD in applied mathematics begins with the study of the relevant background literature. This brings the candidate up to date with current research developments. Moreover, students in their first year will spend a substantial amount of time learning and refining their applied mathematics knowledge relevant to the project. The subsequent years are very much project focussed with the aim of making substantial scientific progress. 
 
 Who we are looking for 
 
 Above all we are looking for passionate and well prepared mathematicians who are keen to work at the forefront of applied mathematics research. We also consider students from other degree programmes with solid mathematical foundations, for example physics and engineering. 
 
 You will be supervised by Prof. Jean-Marc Vanden-Broeck plus other members of the department as appropriate.