###Developing single-dopant spin qubits in silicon

Project ID: 2228bd1148
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Quantum Technologies](../themes/quantum-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN)](../departments/london-centre-for-nanotechnology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.london-nano.com)

Lead Supervisor: [Mark Buitelaar](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=MBUIT81)

Project Summary:

The overarching aim of the PhD project is to develop single-dopant spin qubits in silicon as the building blocks of a scalable and distributed quantum processor. To realize such a quantum processor, the student will use atomically precise dopant implantation methods and microwave control techniques to store quantum information in the dopants' nuclear spin states. 
 
 The student will work in a team of experimental scientists at the London Centre for Nanotechnology (LCN). During the first part of the project (18 months) the student will work in the Scanning Probe Microscopy Laboratory under the supervision of Dr. Taylor Stock and Prof. Neil Curson and will be trained in using ultra-high vacuum scanning tunnelling microscopy hydrogen lithography to incorporate P and As dopants with atomic precision in isotopically pure silicon. This will allow the student to fabricate a number of quantum devices of varying complexity.
 
 During the second part of the project (30 months), the student will be working in the Quantum Devices Laboratory under the supervision of Dr. Mark Buitelaar to measure the fabricated devices at mK temperatures. Benefitting from long electron and nuclear spin coherence of dopants in silicon, the student will develop radio-frequency readout and microwave control techniques to transfer quantum information between the electron and nuclear spins and work towards building a small network of entangled qubits.
 
 The project will equip the student with a large set of experimental skills such as nanofabrication, cryogenic measurement methods, and microwave engineering; and will provide the student with a solid background in the fields of materials science and quantum information processing.
 
 Applicants should have a strong interest in materials science and quantum physics and a degree in Physics, Engineering or related subject. For more information on our groups: https://www.ucl.ac.uk/quantum-devices.