###Physical, Virtual and Augmented Reality Data Devices: Creating a step change towards Net Zero with a human focused communication of building data

Project ID: 2228bd1168
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Information and Communication Technologies](../themes/information-and-communication-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis](../departments/centre-for-advanced-spatial-analysis.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/casa)

Lead Supervisor: [Andrew Hudson-Smith](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=APSMI18)

Project Summary:

The understanding of building-level data is central to a successful move towards a net-zero. Yet key data sets are often held in complex software systems or communicated in ways which often do not aid joined-up decision-making. By unlocking data sets and communicating them in new ways (see UCL Open Gauges Site - https://connected-environments.org/portfolio/opengauges/), it is possible to change the way such data is communicated and, thus, how decisions are made.
 
 The PhD builds on the work of the established Bartlett ‘Smart Campus’ group (10 active members across all departments) and is based on recent discussions with the wider senior management team on unlocking the potential of the understanding of building and campus data via physical and digital devices.
 
 The candidate will be working with a cross-faculty team focused around the ‘Smart Campus. From data scientists through to experts in energy monitoring, architects, makers, creators and experts in the fields of data communication. They will also work closely with the Bartlett NetZero 2030 group linked in with experts from the Connected Environments Group at The Bartlett Centre for Advanced Spatial Analysis. In addition, they will work with the Professional Services team to communicate data across disciplines and professional fields.
 
 The candidate will make and deploy data devices using 3D printing, laser cutting, and acrylic printing, making use of the workshop at UCL East, Pool Street. In addition, they will create digital twins using gaming technology and deploy on mobile devices. These devices will form a case study for data communication and will lead to a series of trials on data usage, decision making and ultimately behavioural change.
 
 We are looking for a person with a background in data science and sensor communication and a drive to communicate science in new and more effective ways.