Ice growth or erosion in pipe flows

Project ID: 2228bd1173
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Mathematical Sciences](../themes/mathematical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mathematics](../departments/mathematics.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/maths)

Lead Supervisor: [Robert Bowles](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=RIBOW20)

Project Summary:

The background is on the use of fluid flow to unfreeze blocked vessels (channels or pipes) and how the freezing occurred in the first place. When warm fluid passes over a patch of ice frozen onto a pipe’s internal surface, complex physical interactions take place between the ice, meltwater, the surrounding fluid and the surface. Similar interplay occurs when water freezes onto a cold surface. The research project will apply new mathematical modelling to understand and predict the effects on melt and freeze times of major parameters including approach speed, pipe shape, temperatures, densities and latent heat. Outcomes additional to phase change also need exploration, significantly affecting overall heat transfer and large-scale ice growth. Real applications of the science are to environmental, engineering and industry interests. 
 
 Why this research is important 
 
 The research will shed light on the melting and freezing of ice in environmental, engineering and industry settings. It will also shed much-needed light on basic phase change phenomena in the presence of local water flow, for example near pipe bends or when pipe surfaces are rough. 
 
 Who you will be working with 
 
 You will be working with Dr Robert Bowles and Professor Frank Smith in UCL Mathematics. 
 
 What you will be doing 
 
 You will be developing and applying mathematical modelling to help understand and predict fundamental phase change processes in the presence of local air and water flow. 
 
 Who we are looking for 
 
 We are looking for a student who is keen and well trained in applied mathematics or with equivalent experience.