###Flexible sensor arrays and source modelling for spinal cord imaging

Project ID: 2228bd1233
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Healthcare Technologies](../themes/healthcare-technologies.md)

UCL Lead department: [Queen Square Institute of Neurology](../departments/queen-square-institute-of-neurology.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/ion)

Lead Supervisor: [Sven Bestmann](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=SBEST86)

Project Summary:

We have recently developed a novel approach for measuring electrophysiological signals from the human spinal cord, using optically pumped magnetometers (OPMs). OPM sensors that can be worn on the head and back, and thus provide a novel way for studying cortico-spinal neurophysiology in health and disease. This addresses the limited possibilities currently for measuring electrophysiological signals from the brain and spinal cord concurrently, and the resulting dearth of knowledge about these interactions in humans during everyday behaviour, and disorders affecting the spinal cord and the brain.
 
 A key challenge is to develop flexible sensor arrays for greater experimental and patient-friendly application. Currently, existing systems including our novel system for magnetospinoencephalography (MSEG), use rigid, 3D-printed sensors casts tailored to the anatomy of an individual. This however is costly, limits wider application and constraints behaviour, such as whole body movement, walking or reaching. We already have developed flexible sensor arrays for the brain - caps which can be worn on the head and house the OPM sensors. The project will extend this to cover the spinal cord, but this will require novel solutions including automated tracking of sensor location in 3D space and consideration of flexible but stable materials and designs for accurate measurements.
 
 Moreover, new source modelling approaches are needed to reduce noise (e.g. from back muscles), and to obtain accurate estimates about the origin of the electrophysiological signal from the spinal cord. This will leverage our expertise in 7T anatomical spinal cord imaging, and develop new source modelling approaches that take into account the complex and dynamic anatomy of the back, incl muscles. 
 The project will conduct proof-of-principle validation in healthy individuals during naturalistic behaviour (e.g., walking, reaching. This will provide an essential step toward precision electrophysiology of the human spinal cord in health and disease.