Systems Approaches in the Built Environment

Project ID: 2228bd1156
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Energy and Decarbonisation](../themes/energy-and-decarbonisation.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: Nici Zimmerman

Project Summary:

Central and local government departments in the UK call for systems methods to tackle the most pressing sustainability topics across water management, natural capital, housing and construction. However, they lack important expertise, models and tools for implementing systems approaches. As a result, they often face unintended consequences and sustainability is at risk.
 
 This PhD project will closely collaborate with our existing research and partners in local authorities and government bodies to help them and others tackle complex built environment problems more systemically. You will support these authorities via systems-focused tools that will help navigate complexity. This includes system dynamics modelling of the complex interrelated factors that make the built environment (un-)sustainable, e.g. in the area of low-carbon housing and urban systems. You will also investigate how the authorities’ different focus on the complex built environment system may contribute to unintended consequences.
 
 The project will put additional emphasis on how to the further develop the system dynamics modelling methodology to tackle complex built environment problems that require systems-focused methods. This will provide insights not only into selected sustainability questions but also into how we best address them through systems methodology.
 
 We are looking for a candidate with a keen interest in sustainability and the built environment, particular in topics across urban systems, water management, natural capital, housing and construction, and in working in an interdisciplinary team. The ideal candidate will have good skills in system dynamics modelling, knowledge on how to ground system dynamics models in a diversity of data types and has ideally worked directly with stakeholders before. The candidate is expected to have an excellent academic track record, with Bachelor/Master degrees ideally in a sustainability-related area. We also encourage applications from candidates who may not meet all criteria and are looking forward to hearing from you.