Embedding sustainability in chemistry and STEM subject in higher education, using systems and network thinking to develop future sustainability policy makers, researchers and practitioners

Project ID: 2228bd1195
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Circular Economy](../themes/circular-economy.md)

UCL Lead department: [Chemistry](../departments/chemistry.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/chemistry)

Lead Supervisor: Victoria Hilborne

Project Summary:

Solving sustainability as described by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, is an increasingly important and urgent focus of chemistry and wider STEM subject research. Chemistry and STEM subject education must adapt learning cultures to encompass the complexity and interdisciplinary nature of sustainability problem solving. Tools of network science and graph theory are ideal for such transformative learning, essential for developing future sustainability research, practitioners and policy makers. This investigation is interdisciplinary and explores the creation of complex systems maps, network graphics and use of fuzzy logic modelling tools for embedding ‘education for sustainability’. To design and test these tools to facilitate an essentially holistic approach to sustainability problem solving, pre-emptively and for current issues. Of equal importance is the exploration and application of core pedagogical concepts, integrating these with systems thinking, graph theory and fuzzy logic modelling, with the aim of providing effective education and skills for identifying and leading sustainable process strategies. 
 The research student will build on knowledge of data systems that use systems and network maps, to connect core principles in any chemistry or STEM subject discipline with sustainable development goals and strategies. The aim is therefore to fundamentally change the learning culture to one that embraces management of ill-defined complex problems, followed by prioritising problem-solving pathways hence moving away from traditional linear thinking. The student will work with academic staff, researchers, fellow research students, post and undergraduate students across chemistry, and STEM education disciplines evaluating and robust failure testing the sustainability education tools. There is scope to broaden to wider STEM subjects and chemical engineering industry as the application is readily transferable. 
 This project would suit a student who is interested in systems and network data, fuzzy logic modelling, and interdisciplinary application to education development for chemistry, engineering and wider STEM subjects.