###Microplastic quantification in vivo using advanced x-ray imaging methods

Project ID: 2228bd1034
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Advanced Materials](../themes/advanced-materials.md)

UCL Lead department: [Division of Medicine](../departments/division-of-medicine.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/medicine)

Lead Supervisor: [Marco Endrizzi](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=MENDR57)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important:
 
 Microplastics are a global pollutant, found in terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems, and human food, blood, placenta, lung and liver. Though the exact risks of microplastic accumulation are unknown, evidence is accumulating of their impact on fertility and lifespan of various organisms - along with associated threats to ecological stability. Research on how microplastics accumulate and behave in vivo should therefore be a priority. However, no entirely non-invasive imaging method for microplastics exists for humans or large animals. This project aims to fill that gap by developing an x-ray-based method of detection that avoids the need for invasive sampling or biopsies. 
 
 Who you will be working with:
 
 This project will be jointly supervised by Marco Endrizzi, Professor of Experimental Physics, and Dr Stephen Patrick, Lecturer in Medical Imaging, both at UCL. Support in materials and nanoparticle chemistry will be provided by established collaborator Dr Joseph Bear (University of Kingston). 
 
 What you will be doing:
 
 Microplastics/fibres will be produced using established methods with a range of polymers (PET, Nylon, Polypropylene etc), shapes, and sizes, then screened to quantify changes in x-ray absorption, phase-shift, and scattering in tissue-simulating samples. After establishing the optimal imaging parameters for different microplastics/fibres in vitro, animal uptake models will be imaged at intervals using x-ray CT, to evaluate temporal and spatial patterns of distribution. This will be validated using ex vivo based histological analysis of dissected organs, including staining for microplastics and associated fibrosis/inflammation. Higher-resolution data from ex vivo organs will be obtained at UK’s national synchrotron facility.
 
 Who we are looking for:
 
 The ideal candidate would be excited to be developing new technology, and open to working in an interdisciplinary environment, spanning physics, medical imaging, biology, and materials chemistry. Candidates with a background in engineering, physics, biology, or chemistry will be considered.