Technology options for a circular Net zero Transformation of the UK steel industry: insights from a demand based perspective

Project ID: 2228bd1186
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Circular Economy](../themes/circular-economy.md)

UCL Lead department: [Bartlett School of Environment, Energy and Resources](../departments/bartlett-school-of-environment-energy-and-resources.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/bartlett/bartlett-school-environment-energy-and-resources)

Lead Supervisor: [Teresa Domenech](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=TDOME86)

Project Summary:

Why this research is important
 Steel is essential to our society. It is used across a wide range of applications from infrastructure projects to domestic appliances. Although steel is a foundational industry and precursor of economic and social development, it is one of the largest emitters of GHG emissions worldwide. Steel producers across the globe are facing technological and policy challenges to accelerate the decarbonisation of the steel sector. The UK economy is highly reliant of steel and steel-containing products, but the reduction of its manufacturing base has resulted in a large share of emissions embodied in trade (imports to the UK). 
 Who you will be working with
 Working across a multi-disciplinary team of researchers as part of the UKRI Interdisciplinary Centre on Circular Metals, the work will include working closely with a range of stakeholders, and in a collaboration with four other UKRI Circular Economy Centres and industry.
 What you will be doing
 The main goal of the project is to conduct a detailed dynamic Material Flow Analysis to understand the use of steel in the UK and associated emissions from a demand-based perspective. This would require to track down steel across all it life stages from crude steel to steel embedded in products, and quantify emissions associated to UK steel consumption. This would enable to identify embodied emissions associated to growing share of steel product imports and explore technological pathways for production of green steel in the UK. In your PhD thesis, you will develop a model which allows to connect material flows, carbon emissions and link it with macro-economic models to explore technological options towards the future.