###Mathematical modelling for sickle cell disease

Project ID: 2228bd1166
(You will need this ID for your application)

Research Theme: [Mathematical Sciences](../themes/mathematical-sciences.md)

UCL Lead department: [Mathematics](../departments/mathematics.md)

[Department Website](https://www.ucl.ac.uk/maths)

Lead Supervisor: [Philip Pearce](https://iris.ucl.ac.uk/iris/browse/profile?upi=PPEAR12)

Project Summary:

In sickle cell disease (SCD), red blood cells (RBCs) stiffen in deoxygenated conditions, increasing effective blood viscosity and eventually causing complete occlusion of blood vessels, if left untreated. To guide the development of genetic and pharmacological treatment strategies, we need to understand the biophysical processes that lead to vessel occlusion, and how blood properties after treatment affect occlusive risk. To this end, in this project we will quantitatively characterise the factors that contribute to the clogging dynamics of suspensions of deformable and rigid particles in microchannels. Using a fluid-structure interaction code framework called BioFM, we will connect distributions of RBC stiffnesses to effective blood material properties and clogging dynamics. The results will provide new mathematical insight into the connection between heterogeneous particulate properties and emergent non-Newtonian continuum dynamics in non-Brownian suspensions, with applications throughout soft and biological matter. The project will include collaboration with Profs. David Wood (University of Minnesota) and John Higgins (Harvard Medical School), allowing the student to access newly emerging experimental data. Furthermore, the student will learn highly transferable coding, simulation and analytical skills. The project fits into the lead applicant's wider research programme on multi-scale modelling of complex biological systems.